Rewrite the osu!catch Ranking Criteria (#5261)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Ranking_Criteria/osu!catch/en.md

# osu!catch ranking criteria

> ***Note: This document is an extension of the [general ranking criteria](/wiki/Ranking_Criteria).***

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***Notice: This article is an extension of the [general ranking criteria](/wiki/Ranking_Criteria).***
```

> **Note: This document is an extension of the [general ranking criteria](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Ranking_Criteria).**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note: This document is an extension of the [general ranking criteria](/wiki/Ranking_Criteria).*
```

Author: Just pushed a commit with all the things fixed, but thanks for pointing out anyway 👍

- **Hyperdash:** Objects generated when the spacing between two active objects is too far apart to be caught by normal dashing. During play, this is characterized by a coloured outline on the first object. The term is also used to describe the movement between the two objects.
- **Trigger distance:** The minimum spacing between two active objects at which a hyperdash is generated between them.
- **Edge dash:** A very large spacing between two active objects where the required trigger distance is not reached, and as such, a hyperdash is not generated. The first object must be caught with the edge of the plate in order to catch the second object at all.
- **Basic-snapped dash/hyperdash:** Any dash or hyperdash whose time between active objects is at least twice the time required to allow dashes or hyperdashes, respectively. As an example, a hyperdash between objects separated by 250 ms in a Platter classifies as a basic-snapped hyperdash.

> - **Higher-snapped dash/hyperdash:** Any dash or hyperdash that doesn't meet the requirement to be a basic-snapped one, i.e. the time between the objects is less than the threshold to be classified as basic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Higher-snapped dash/hyperdash:** Any dash or hyperdash that doesn't meet the requirement to be a basic-snapped one (i.e. the time between the objects is less than the threshold to be classified as basic).
```
i.e. and e.g. work better in parentheses imo

- **Antiflow:** A strong direction or velocity change that goes against a player's natural movement pattern.

#### Snapping reference table

| Difficulty | Basic-snapped dash | Higher-snapped dash | Basic-snapped hyperdash | Higher-snapped hyperdash |

> | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
```

- **Dashes and hyperdashes should not be used when the destination of the dash or hyperdash is located near the left or right border of the playfield.** This creates an uncomfortable movement as the catcher is forcibly stopped upon reaching the border of the playfield (x:16 on the left and x:496 on the right).
- **Ensure combos do not reach unreasonable lengths.** Caught fruits will stack up on the plate and can potentially obstruct the player's view. Bear in mind that slider tails, repeats and spinner bananas also count as "fruits". New Combos should be placed regularly to clear the plate and avoid this.
- **Try to have at least one spinner in each difficulty to create variety in the map and fluctuation among scores.** However, if a spinner just doesn't fit anywhere in the song, then there's no need to force one.

> - **Overall Difficulty should have the same value as the Approach Rate.** This is just a standardized value, as Overall Difficulty does not affect gameplay nor the number of fruits a spinner has, just the maximum score of a difficulty. However, if a difficulty uses a lower Approach Rate than one or more difficulties in the difficulty level below it, then the Overall Difficulty should be equal to that of the highest Overall Difficulty value in the previous difficulty level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Overall Difficulty should have the same value as the Approach Rate.** This is just a standardised value, as Overall Difficulty does not affect gameplay nor does the number of fruits a spinner has; only the maximum score of a difficulty matters. However, if a difficulty uses a lower Approach Rate than one or more difficulties in the difficulty level below it, then the Overall Difficulty should be equal to that of the highest Overall Difficulty value in the previous difficulty level.
```
the wording confuses me on what you're trying to communicate there (second sentence). If my attempt is wrong please do correct

Author: It is indeed a bit unclear, although your changes would make the last part of the sentence incorrect. I'll rewrite the sentence once all the other suggestions are applied

#### Rules

- **Hyperdashes must have at least a 125 ms gap between their two objects.**
- **Hyperdashes cannot be used on individual drops and/or slider repetitions.** The accuracy and control required is unreasonable at this level and can create a situation where the player potentially fails to read the slider path.

> - **Hyperdashes of different beat snap must not be used between consecutive fruits.** For example, a 1/2 hyperdash followed by a 1/4 hyperdash.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Hyperdashes of differing beat snaps must not be used between consecutive fruits.** For example, a 1/2 hyperdash followed by a 1/4 hyperdash.
```
or maybe?
```suggestion
- **Hyperdashes of a different beat snap must not be used between consecutive fruits.** For example, a 1/2 hyperdash followed by a 1/4 hyperdash.
```
